## Design holístico 

Magenta, may I use this time to actually go through this moment, this meditation experience. This may be the warm-up. Now, having been there, one thing first, things first. It's important to celebrate that what quickly can't be missed, that Magenta is a vegetarian place in Salamanca. I would think that in this area with so many students around, downtown, some of them are vegetarians and vegans, and would see a vegetarian place as a warming invitation. I'm not vegetarian, but I do appreciate the experience, especially from the perspective of the valleys. In a way, they're all half-stepped there in the potential that it produces.

So, then, having entered the place, the first thing that caught my attention, that I consciously knew were something with the architecture, an elegant arrangement with the furniture, something with the colors and the frames, an interesting layout. Here I saw a review in Google Maps referring to the layout as Nordic.
So, a comfortable, warming, charming place, but nothing like a fancy place. They had a bar, I mean, a balcony, the usual Spanish display for tapas, on the right side, and on the other end, an arrangement with different sweet tortas, arranged like flowers would be arranged, not one next to each other, but like, in three dimensions, really like a garden, in a way.

that may be it a garden not made of flowers except a few little planters on the tables but carrying on an unique blend of furniture frames chairs and tables all charming and again nothing fancy as in to a point of being a place for a formal celebration big groups casual in a way when looking at the Google Maps I had found comments like you can go there to talk with your friends to have a coffee alone and it is quiet in a way or has a calm atmosphere for solo or small groups

For me, in terms of the category, it would be yet within the frames of a coffee place, but in a way, if you consider the Spanish coffee place, they do incorporate the bar function. The settings seem it good to accommodate one in a few of the small tables or up to four or six on the big tables. They actually ask you to only use the big table if you have at least four. So I would say there is a maximum of 16 people inside and they do have the patio outside.
And one would not take too long to ask where is the magenta color? Because I couldn't find. But yet, these would be my first impressions. And I knew that something were in there. Not visible yet, but I knew since the first time I went there when I was yet getting acquainted to tapas. So I remember the first day when I ordered gnocchi Italian gnocchi small bowl and a cup of caña a small-sized draft beer cup light beer And it was such a pleasing experience. And I remember the first day when I ordered a cup of caña a cup of caña a cup of caña a cup of caña a cup of caña But I knew that something were there in the air making that place special. Yet, I should remind ourselves here that in the first day really what I had experienced goes like what we really know how things goes in real life it's really nothing like what I'm saying but it really starts with a reminder that we give to ourselves I will come back here and that's that nothing more and there and then you come back and again and sometimes you get the same plate and most times the same beer and again and again something in the air

I usually set on a smaller table, with one or two seats, and then I cut in front of data, the letters. On the table, under the glass, left by customers, and friends and parents and students, you name it. Every table had these letters. First I was like, okay, a family left a message here, they loved the place, but then, going back there, having gnocchi again, and trying other tapas, all vegetarian friendly and good, and yet sensing something in the air, I was then more, better positioned to find the truth. Actually, I yet don't know fully the truth, because I didn't ask her. I guessed. This person, next, right there, behind the balcony, is probably the owner. I saw her the other day. A woman, which I think is her mother. In another day, a child, who I think is her daughter, or the daughter of her sister.

and this is how I was completing the puzzle piece by piece returning there occasionally I had read these letters on that usual table and that may be or the clue may be to something were taking me to read the other letters may be as well something we're taking me to read the other letters

So, I broke my routine pattern the next time I went there in the morning, different than the afternoon, actually morning in Brazil, because I was yet in Brazil's time zone. The point is that I had coffee and croissant, and asked her for coffee and the croissant à la plancha, because it was a considerable colder day of November.

Then this time I picked a different table as well, with different letters in front of me. And now, the thing about these letters had finally brought me to find a major piece of the puzzle. Because it was about time. And because all the letters had, in the beginning, starting with Marta, open quote Marta, comma, end quote. They always started like that, most of them actually. And this sets us in the right position to show one of the letters. Here is one of them.

Now, the other letters may carry on elements given by this one. They were all, in a way, alike. I would say that Marta had connected all of them with things they missed and things they knew through Marta's place. Through the sweet tortas, through the tapas, through the café con leche, through the cañas, the wine or other drinks, through Marta, certainly. They all, in a way, recognized that they were taking something from Spain with them. I'm guessing these letters were from the passing, the folks living in the area, not being long enough in Spain before giving them that sensibility, so that they would be open to see and observe and feel these elements. Not being long enough in Spain, so that they would be brought to a comfortable place they miss, like home perhaps, ahead of time.

And then, before coming back, I would say, they realized they wanted to capture something from the city. Like a souvenir. In the heart about Spain. So they picked the best regalo. And they paused, as they paused their lives, to write these letters.

So, there's something in the air, it's covered in part, and when almost over my trip, I knew that what I had experienced was too fresh, to be sure. I mean, I could not fully be in that position of these fellows and folks who wrote those letters, and the kids who left the drawings with hearts, all addressed to Marta. No, I could not see everything, and I would say that the thing which gave me the opportunity to keep open, watching out for something in the air, is exactly that I know my place, surely to be sure.

Now, to close, it is about time to make it a point here, which is not in question when the subject of food establishments, which is the question if the owner must be present or what's the role of the owner. This idea in the world of startups is also quite strong. Should the owner be there and present? And in the case of startup, it leads to a prerogative where we say that you can't hire a CEO to be in your place. Now, one way to look at this would be to think about the owner that is present there to make sure things are running as they should, that colleagues are working, keeping the customer experience as expected, that sort of thing. Yep, that's one way. But there is a place where Marta, the owner, is everywhere in a way. I think that magenta is an arrangement of things and that Marta is doing art there to some extent through magenta. She's advancing something. Maybe she's doing for her daughter or her niece or for her mother, or maybe she's doing for herself. But certainly, she's doing for these folks coming and going, and she knows that. And as for things in the air,

The consideration here, after the above paragraph, is to actually address the difference between the controller owner and the creative owner.

And, as for things in the air, I needed a clue to actually figure some other elements outstanding. I had noticed when I published a video of my plate, but it was published to YouTube and unlisted so I could share among my family and friends, and it turned out that even being unlisted the automatic YouTube algorithm had blocked the video and said that they detected an audio in the background from melee series. At the moment I didn't realize what were in front of me in the air, but it were there and the next day that I came to the place, right after entering, I noticed the music. Situations were very nice. I could not figure the pattern totally, but I had to ask Marta and she said that it was just Spotify. Her playlist.

So, because my trip is almost over, and this is likely the last day I'm visiting Magenta before I come back next year, if I can, with my wife, I'll close this article by asking us to go back to that question and to ask about the involvement of the owner. What we have really is not really that the owner involved there as a controller, which is normally how we see it when we are in a hurry. What we have in front of us is not necessarily the best place in the world. What we have there is an opportunity to see that the presence that is present, it may not be even of a leader, but it's the presence of leadership beyond anything. What this leadership is doing is making sure that there is a coherent story there. I think that we shall go back to the world of startups to see how great experiences are created and why, in many circumstances, a person carrying on a coherent story actually does, can manage the job to innovate. So here I ask us to celebrate a thought from one of the leaders from Airbnb, Joe Gabbia, who explained the concept of holistic design, how Airbnb sees the experience of staying at other people's homes. It's not about having a great photo or a five-star staying like in a hotel. What Airbnb is essentially about, and they knew that from the beginning because they were designers, Joe Gabbia and Brian Chesky, is really about the importance of taking care of the holistic design. So for them, that means the app, it means the photos, it means the safety of the guests, it means the safety of the hosts, it means the whole balance. And maybe just like Magenta, Airbnb is not the best experience ever created at all. But these are the opportunities for a leadership to exist, for a leadership to carry on the coherent narrative. Like the case with Magenta, what's in the air that sometimes we can't touch exactly, it's a mix, it's a blend, it's a unique blend. It's in the architecture, it's in furniture, it's in the soundtrack, it's in listening to the customers, it's in valuing the customers.

In my last day at Magenta, I was lucky to see Marta opening a glass of a table and arranging two letters there. And I think one of her family relatives asked what was that about, and she probably said that it was of somebody. But those from far seem to be drawings from kids. So what she's doing there, I saw how she was arranging the letters, the sheets of paper there and how she took the glass on the side and used her time to do a little cleaning and glue or something there on the table and then place it as she wanted these letters. And then look at the glass again, and she was probably celebrating. And maybe what she has there too for her is that it's for them because they are giving her the opportunity to keep doing her job. She is giving to them the opportunity to have the kind of experience that makes them write letters like that, and that's leadership.

<!--
@note  

I think that the opportunity that I was able to see during my visits with Magenta brought me to reflect about the presence of the owner. What means the captain, or the leader, to be there I don't think necessarily that the general rule of the owner to be at the place should be taken into consideration if we look at it the way we generally look at it, because we're really generally looking at it as if the captain is there to control the ship. I think the lesson is, with Magenta's case, that the leader is there to make sure that there is a holistic experience going on, in terms of the layout, in terms of the menu, and the treatment that you can give to the customer, in terms of values, in terms of the soundtrack. That's really what the presence of the leader is about. And beyond, the point is, it's not really the vision of one person. Of course, generally, maybe because the way we're doing things so far, it's easier for one person to be able to, to a certain extent, develop this holistic vision. But the point is that it's not about the leader, the specific person, but it's about the leadership. It's really about the vision that embodies that whole holistic experience. And when we can find a way to do that, it doesn't really matter where's the leader, I would think. That's the reflection that Magenta gave me. It was a reminder about leadership, it was a reminder about holistic design. Here's a note. This connects with the vision from the co-founder of Airbnb, Joe Gabbia.
-->  


