## O quebra cabeça do croissant

<!--
* https://docs.google.com/document/d/1hLPFk83jwIaeOqI2qsYfO_LUMU07JYI9XqjGtg1BPiI/edit?tab=t.0
-->

Now, we should address an actual complexes situation which rises when we try to create let us say new worlds but they aren't centered around values. 

This subject is complex because, certainly, innovation depends on change and experimentation, and certainly on the movement where we need to go further to actually see if we have found interesting things. 
With that said, there is always variability that seems to take us away from the possibility of improving the whole experience. 

A case worth considering is the situation of the  croissant in Brazil, especially the salty ones, which are stuffed before baking. Now, it is reasonable to give our folks the benefit of the doubt, again to let them play, but somehow a whole category of establishments are stuffing them with volume of things. 

Now, the potential problem here, which creates a confusion, is when addiction attempts to add value but in fact does work the other way around - in the direction or more is less. 

Now, an origin of problems may be related to the fact that we do take for granted existing categories of experiences - like the croissant - without getting it, without knowing what they are, its values, which take us to produce versions who are poorer, and then, as an attempt to save, we try to add value on top. 

This is so because if we take for granted, the given, by failing to find its values, we may set ourselves in a direction to propagate further the problem - the misunderstanding to some degree - yet taking advantage of category-item, of its reputation and need by the market, and here is where we engage, in a way in being creative on ways to market it, which is where things can go haywire. 

By assuming that it sells, by its reputation, then, what follows, is that we can’t identify the essential values which characterizes that initial experience. This is where we add things and things go haywire. 

 As an example, one croissant establishment may bake something that has the same shape, thus it does pass some of the criteria; but of course it fails the french test by everyone else involved. Then, now and somehow because the design followed a bad route, additional work of invention might get in the way as an attempt to fix the puzzle (considering that the protagonists don’t fully get the category product). And when they do so, they tend to “add” value by creating additional features such as adding value, stuffing things, or more toppings. 

What they can do can then cost them a lot because what they did doesn’t fall as an evolution to the product. It can be perceived as an attempt to fix by forcing attributes that are intended as value which doest give the place any recognition. Moreover, may too create a quite heavy machine, in the sense of a complex process not only by its confusing nature, because the whole process is subject to actually being more complex than if they could get fixed, or figured out what is wrong in a prior step. 

In other words, they would be putting themselves in a situation of managing a heavier operation while not creating value that takes them into a virtuous pathway - where actual variability introduced certainly threatens the whole. 

To be fair - and here is where things can really be confusing to many places - the product and the whole establishment may actually be able to survive. Thus, it is not that an official croissant certification association shuts down their operation. In reality, what they may have created is to some extent a valid arbitrary meal, stuffed. And the problem with that goes back to the very behaviors that give room to that “accelerated” movement. because when we do not care about all of that, we may too do the same sort of approach in other areas. 

And the real cost of maintenance adds with time, plus if the business by doing that starts to damage itself, then again the sort of same “strategic” responses appear like automatic behaviors of our operations leading to a snowball effect. 

