## A estante da culinária  

<!--

@todo 

* [ ] @todo - p2 - In "Future" #bookintroductions, consider the introduction of the book which takes in consideration variou religions and finds a peaceful spot. 

@tags 

* #introductions #bookintroductions #cooksintroductions #purpose #reflections

@docs 

* https://docs.google.com/document/d/1-YwCrCaSJolwg4-PVtpkF5elvyCjy9cnDdw-8t54kRo/edit?tab=t.0


-->

While visiting Salamanca I was also completing the work for this book. And to help with the book development I am glad I didn’t know I was caught in what some people would call a university city. 

Maybe, certainly, there are many of these throughout Europe. I stayed 30 days and wanted to complete the bulk of the work. And to help with that this university city gave me a good environment and routine. I found a good number of libraries and was quite happy that these places were crowded with students of all ages, so I had then the right setting, wifi, great tables, and of course a conditioned air - a warmer place to focus. 

I visited a few different ones but something took me to go back to Las Conchas public library, probably because the place seemed smaller, because of its medieval architecture, and also because the people were closer on the same big table. I started going at least three days per week and one thing that happened - I guess - when we sort of live in a library, not unlike the one who may temporarily live in an international airport - is that we look around, get to know the corners, and of course something that is being said by the arrangements of books by the librarians. 
I end up learning about how they rearrange books in common areas the hard way - I noticed an interesting book one day, caught by the cover, on a table used as a display in a common area: Read a bit of it and was caught by a perspective where the author were pointing that nostalgia was sort of like a force in us, which can take us into strengthening our political views, or the world view. I read quickly, left, and went away. A couple days later I wanted to go back and pick that book - and could not find it anymore. I lost it. 

Anyway, my point here is that I was getting acquainted with the environment, with the dynamics, and corners. One other day, on my way to the bathroom, I noticed the cooking aisle. And again and again, I knew that that aisle wasn’t moving away. Now, I knew of my limits as to why not to enter certain aisles of materials, given by two factors: One, that to open these materials would mean getting into research mode again. And two, I could run into such interesting things, as in new worlds, that could destroy the structure in the sense of taking me to reevaluate the whole logical structure of the book and its intent with the audience.  In other words, I had warned myself to now touch certain aisles of experiences, especially the world of cooking [^footnote_cooking_not]. 

[^footnote_cooking_not]: Entering into any specific great book about cooking would likely create major influences in my perspective; and I knew that one would take me to another and to consider the many subjects associated with food and cooking experiences would be overwhelming to the project. Thus, a safe boundary was created, which may even seem a paradox, but which gave this book meaning, and its value. 

But days went by and these books were not moving away from my way so one day I sat on that bench next to the aisle, yet avoiding them but looking at the titles anyway. 

And then I picked one of them, knowing I could not engage, perhaps like a tourist wanting to get an idea of what they were about, so I read the note on the side sheet with information about the author, first. And then that took me to start reading the introduction. While I was quite moved by that introduction, that was it I was protected from the risk of moving more. My limit was there, so I took a picture of it as a reminder, and closed the book. 
And then, I did the same again, picked another book, read the introduction, and that was it, took another picture. And the same, again and again. Under the European perspective, and being in Salamanca inside a medieval library, I would say I was walking around these castles.

And at this point I loved to be involved with these introductions, and moving from one to another I felt I was not crossing that line, for sure, but also realized to a great extent the point of connection between this book and these other books, such as books on cooking.  

The point, to some extent, connects with something I did mention in the introduction (or in the foreword) where I positioned the book as something preliminary, outside the normal shelves, in the sense of being supportive of us to be conscious and to reflect about our own movement, which normally can take us to engage, to take action. Now, these introductions had in it certain elements that seemed to be also outside what the books were about - they too had it as a moment of consciousness and they always showed values, the things preliminary to these authors, the things which took them to write. 

From the side note from the cover of Antonio Carluccio’s book - LA COCINA ITALIANA we get an invitation to recognize’s Carluccio’s intention - we see one who knows how the innovation at the front line is tied with prior principles and values: 

<!-- 
@meta note
* Original citation - No se trata solamente de conocer y apreciar los platos, las recetas y la cocina. Sobre todo, Carluccio considera que la mayor contribución de Italia al mundo gastronómico son los productos italianos (sus ingredientes y su forma de crecimiento, cultivo, preparación y utilización).
--> 

> *Não se trata somente de conhecer e apreciar os pratos, as receitas e a cozinha. Sobretudo, Carluccio considera que a maior contribuição da Itália ao mundo gastronômico são os produtos italianos (seus ingredientes e sua forma de crescimento, cultivo, preparação e utilização).* (CARLUCCIO, 2006, Nota de capa lateral, tradução nossa) 

<!-- 
@meta @references  
CARLUCCIO, Antonio. La Cucina Italiana. Tradução e revisão técnica da edição em língua espanhola por Ana María Pérez Martínez. Barcelona: Blume, 2006.
--> 

Ao mergulhar em sua carta, através da introdução, me peguei à mesa de jantar, presenciando meu pai simplesmente se levantar da mesa em várias situações quando ele percebeu que a experiência de comer estava em risco, quando ele escreveu: "Não é uma visão romântica; é apenas o que a comida deve ser." (CARLUCCIO, 2006, p. 6-8, tradução nossa).

?
E observando Carluccio’s recapitulando sobre as maravilhas culinárias que invadiram a região,  bárbaros, árabes, cartagineses, etruscos, fenícios, turcos, romanos, borbones, espanhois e austríacos trouxeram elementos de suas cozinhas para a Itália.
?

Em parte Carluccio celebra o impossível que aconteceu, o arranjo de experiências únicas que aterrissaram na região, “uma festa gastronômica difícil de superar” (CARLUCCIO, 2006, p. 6-8, tradução nossa) é uma foto que envolve o trabalho forense, que precisa de uma ação por conta da possibilidade do mundo misturar tudo, avançando rápido uma extinção prematura de uma ilha com experiências tão diversas tão próximas. De certa forma, a celebração da diversidade dada por invasões, culinárias, por ingredientes que encontraram um destino bem acomodado. 
Ao ler essa carta eu sinto, agora, que o simples requisito, uma certa intenção italiana que diz para não as coisas, de certa forma é, por um lado, sensibilidade - ou cuidado ou medo - que ao demandar isso está mais intencionada para evitar a ação acelerada de misturar tudo. 

Ler sobre tantas diferentes povos que dominaram regiões e deixaram seus ingredientes e influências, certamente me faz pensar sobre nacionalidades e diferentes povos e culturas que criam muralhas, que de uma forma ou outra se protegem, por um lado. Isso é triste, quando penso em medo que leva a nos distanciarmos um dos outros. E, por outro lado, também penso sobre como coisas básicas transcendem, passando de lado para lado, como a matemática que por povos é evoluída e encontra-se por toda parte. 

Ou como a música que transcende qualquer muro, ou a comida Italiana que veio de fora e tornou-se de dentro e transcende as barreiras do mundo. Como pode o básico ser tão forte e transcender tão bem por todos esses povos que pensam que são diferentes, mas que, no final do dia podem nem mesmo entender mas concordam quando experienciam uma experiência de comer especial. [^footnote_amarthya_sen_identity_violence] 

Então de uma forma ou outra eles abraçaram o tomate que passou por lá, abraçaram a polenta, abraçaram o arroz, abraçaram o macarrão e muito mais - deixe isso na mesa, não me interessa de onde veio, se for bom fica. E, além disso, vai devagar, e não misture essas coisas. Então é isso, elevado a potência, de certa forma, porque temos 256 tipos de formatos e texturas de macarrão, agora, que de certa forma significa exatamente o contrário do movimento brasileiro que pode ser encontrado - um fenômeno onde é fácil achar pizzarias com 256 tipos de pizza feitas com 8 ingredientes industrializados todos despejados em cima de uma massa feita na correria. 

A versão italiana, é o contrário porque são 256 tipos de formas, e com isso de oportunidades, de experienciar de maneiras diferentes o tomate, o molho de tomate. O que a Itália pede, sem muita cerimônia nem romantismo, é um momento de pausa ou expansão. Enquanto um movimento acelerado comprime, outro expande, desacelera. Preste atenção, menos é mais. E isso não é nada romântico. 

